**Topic**

Enhancing IoT Security: Intrusion Detection System Using Machine Learning for Cross-Environment Attack Identification

**Research Gap**

The heterogeneity of connectivity and communication protocols, coupled with the sheer volume of data generated by these devices, creates a complex landscape that is challenging to secure. The diversity of devices and communication protocols within IoT networks complicates the task of identifying compromised devices, particularly as the number of connected devices increases. While similar research has been conducted in the past, this study aims to address the challenge of misclassifications when training and testing IDS models in different environments.


**Our approach** 

The proliferation of IoT devices has ushered in a new era of connectivity, but it has also exposed vulnerabilities that make IoT environments prime targets for adversarial attacks. This study proposes an Intrusion Detection System (IDS) utilizing Machine Learning to uniquely identify various attack types within IoT networks and develop a methodology for distinguishing network traffic from IoT device traffic.

Our primary objective is to demonstrate and mitigate the issue highlighted by Haque et al. by generating robust features that can excel in training and testing environments distinct from one another. By doing so, we aim to enhance the security of IoT ecosystems and contribute to the development of more reliable intrusion detection mechanisms.


**Timeline**

27th to 29th September 2023 - Brainstorming

30th September 2023 - Proposal Submission

1st October to 19th October - Background study and literature survey resource finding and researching solutions 
to the research problem

19th October 2023 - Literature Review Submission

9th November 2023 - Progress Report Submission

15th November to 5th December 2023 - System Testing

5th to 7th of December 2023 - Final Presentation


**References**

1. Haque, S.; El-Moussa, F.; Komninos, N.; Muttukrishnan, R. A Systematic Review of Data-Driven Attack Detection Trends in IoT. Sensors 2023, 23, 7191. https://doi.org/10.3390/s23167191

2. Neto, E. C. P., Dadkhah, S., Ferreira, R., Zohourian, A., Lu, R., & Ghorbani, A. A. (2023). CICIoT2023: A real-time dataset and benchmark for large-scale attacks in IoT environment.
